.TH pico8parse "1" "June 7, 2013" "" "pico8parse manual"
.SH NAME

pico8parse - Lua parser
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B pico8parse
[-v|--version] [-h|--help] [-b|--beautify] [-q|--quiet] [--verbose]
.RS
[--[no]-comments] [--[no]-scope] [--[no]-locations] [--[no]-ranges]
.br
[-c|--code
.I snippet
]
.br
[-f|--file
.I script.lua
]
.br
[
.I code
] [
.I snippet
]
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B
pico8parse
is a parser producing JSON formatted Abstract Syntax Tree representations
.br
of Lua programs.
.SH OPTIONS
.B
.IP "-v, --version"
print pico8parse's version
.IP "-h, --help"
prints usage instructions
.B
.IP "-c, --code [code]"
parse Lua program from code snippet provided as an argument
.B
.IP "-f, --file [file.lua]"
parse Lua program from file
.B
.IP "-b, --beautify"
output an indented AST
.B
.IP "--[no]-comments"
store comments while parsing. defaults to true
.B
.IP "--[no]-scope"
store variable scope tracking while parsing. defaults to false
.B
.IP "--[no]-locations"
store location information on each syntax nodes. defaults to false
.B
.IP "--[no]-ranges"
store the start and end character locations on each syntax node. defaults to false
.B
.IP "--[no]-p8format"
ignore the p8 file format. default to true when applicable
.B
.IP "-L, --luaversion"
Lua version to use. use with no value to print the list
.B
.IP "-q, --quiet"
suppress output
.B
.IP "--verbose"
output additional information
.SH EXAMPLES

.B
.IP "pico8parse 'i = 2^2^3^4' 'i = 2^(2^(3^4))'"
Output the AST of both code snippets separated by a newline.
.B
.IP "pico8parse foo.lua"
Output the AST of the Lua code in the file.
.B
.IP "pico8parse --scope -b -c 'locale foo = 1'"
Output the indented AST of the code snippet and track variable scopes.
.SH BUGS

pico8parse's bug tracker is located at <https://github.com/PictElm/pico8parse/issues>
.SH DOCUMENTATION

See the website for documentation <https://pictelm.github.io/pico8parse/>
.SH AUTHOR

Luaparse originally written by Oskar Schöldström <http://www.oxy.fi/>.
Luaparse currently maintained by felix <felix.von.s@posteo.de>.
pico8parse (fork of luaparse) maintained by Grenier Célestin.
